Welcome back.
Today we're going to look
at question answering,
one of the oldest applications
in natural language processing.
Some of the first NLP tasks, built on
punched card systems in the early 60s,
include the Simmons,
that old system, from 1964.
Let's look at that.
So, that answered questions,
like, what do worms eat?
By taking the question,
parsing it into its dependency format so
we have a relationship between eat and
worms, and eat and what, and then looking
for a matching dependency sentence
somewhere in a large database of answers.
So they had sentences like worms
eat grass, and birds eat worms,
and horses with worms eat grass,
and so on.
And the idea is that this
dependency Treelet worms eat what
match worms eat grass and
even grass is eaten by worms but
not horses eat grass or birds eat worms.
So the idea of answering the question
by finding a sentence that
looks like the question but answers it,
is an old intuition that we're going to
see underlies many modern systems as well.
You may know that last year,
IBM's Watson won the Jeopardy challenge
answering questions about, for example,
this Bram Stoker novel that was
inspired by William Wilkinson's book so
the novel of course was Dracula,
and the author was Bram Stoker.
And you may also know about Apple's Siri,
another question answering application.
So you can ask questions like, do I need
an umbrella tomorrow in San Francisco, and
it will check the weather for you and
tell you which days it's going to rain.
Another question answering application,
Wolfram Alpha, you can ask questions like
how many calories are in two
slices of banana cream pie?
And not only will it give the answer, but
it'll give you little
variables that it lets you.
It'll tell you the semantics
of the answer.
So, we're looking for an amount of pie
that's two slices of banana cream type,
and we're asking about the total calories,
and there's the answer.
702 calories.
So these kind of questions
are factoid questions.
So questions like, how many calories
are there in two slices of apple pie?
Or who wrote The Universal Declaration
of Human Rights?
Or what is the average age
of the onset of autism?
These kind of questions, pretty simple
questions can be answered by a simple fact
off an identity.
Modern systems also deal with complex or
narrative questions.
So in children with
an acute febrile illness,
what is the efficacy of
acetaminophen in reducing fever?
Or, what do scholars think
about Jefferson's position on
dealing with pirates?
So these complex questions
are generally answered more in research
systems whereas factoid question answering
is a widely used commercial application.
What are these kind of factoid questions?
So they can be questions about locations.
So the Louvre being located in Paris,
France, or what an abbreviation means,
or the names of the ravens of Odin,
names of a currency or an ingredient,
or an instrument or a phone number.
So, they're all simple answers often
with a single phrase or name entity.
There are two main paradigms for
question answering.
The IR based approach which will spend a
lot of time on today and that's pioneered
in the annual track evaluations and
used in commercial systems like IBMs and
Googles, and the IR-based approaches go
find the answer in some string on the web.
The knowledge-based approach is build
an answer from understanding parts of
the question, and the hybrid approach is
take a combination of these approaches,
so we might use some online databases and
we might use some information
retrieval approaches to find sentences and
build answers.
And most modern systems, I would say,
are some kind of hybrid of knowledge and
information retrieval.
A few of them like perhaps Wolfram Alpha
are purely knowledge based, but
most systems use a little bit of both.
So, simple web search actually
answers a lot of questions already.
And that's really the intuition
underlying the IR based approach
to question answering that
we'll talk about the most.
So, if I asked into Google,
what are the names of Odin's ravens?
The first page I get has the answer.
And in this snippet that Google returns,
there's the answer.
So it's in the title of this page and
talks about the names of the ravens.
Other kinds of simple questions,
like where is the Louvre Museum located,
are also answerable by
methods like Google.
And here, in fact,
Google applies modern question answering
techniques to give you its best guess for
the location by pulling it out
of semi-structured resources
like Wikipedia or Answers.com.
So, let's see how this factoid
question answering algorithm works.
The general algorithm for IR-based factoid
question answering starts with a question
and begins by extracting information
from the question itself.
And the two most important and
common things to extract from the question
are a query that's going to
be sent to an IR engine, and
the type of the answer that tells us what
kind of name entity we're looking for.
In advance, we take a whole lot
of documents, we index them, so
that when we have a query,
we can return a whole lot of documents.
From those documents, we extract
passages or parts of those documents and
then those passages are then processed
in Answer Processing looking for
the type of the answer
that we are looking for.
And then we are turning
in an actual answer.
So that's the general process.
And we'll walk through the pieces today.
So, another way of looking at
the same set of processes.
Three big parts of the algorithm,
question processing, so
we're detecting the question type,
formulating the queries.
Passage retrieval,
given these queries retrieve documents,
break them into pieces.
And then answer processing,
extract answers from the text snippets and
rank those candidates using evidence from
the text and from other kinds of sources.
So by contrast, the knowledge-based
approach which we will talk about less
today, builds a pure semantic
representation of the query as if you have
Siri or Wolfram Alpha where they're
going to come up with a semantic
representation language for
questions that they understand.
And you might pick some sub domain that
you're able to build a perfect semantic
representation for times,
dates, locations, scientific questions,
mathematical questions.
And from these semantics,
we can then map to structure databases or
structured resources.
Geospatial databases or ontologies or
restaurant review systems.
These things where we can build
up your semantic of the approach.
Hybrid approaches, and IBM Watson is
a good example of this, but lots of others
do this now, build some shallow
semantic representation of the query.
So, they do some processing of the query,
use IR methods to generate
many candidate answers.
But then use these more knowledge-based
approaches to use spatial databases or
temporal reasoning to
score the candidates.
So, IR methods to find
possible candidates,
knowledge-based methods to score them.
So question answering is both one of
the oldest topics in natural language
processing and also one of the newest and
most exciting research areas
with commercial potential.